The President:
This week, many of our largest corporations reported robust
earnings -- a positive
sign of growth.
But too many of our small
business owners and those who
aspire to start their own small
businesses continue to struggle,
in part because they can't get
the credit they need to start
up, grow, and hire.
And too many Americans whose
livelihoods have fallen prey to
the worst recession
in our lifetimes --
a recession that cost our
economy eight million jobs --
still wonder how
they'll make ends meet.
That's why we need to take new,
commonsense steps to help small
businesses, grow our
economy, and create jobs --
and we need to take them now.
For months, that's what
we've been trying to do.
But too often, the Republican
leadership in the United States
Senate chooses to filibuster
our recovery and obstruct our progress.
And that has very
real consequences.
Consider what this obstruction
means for our small businesses
-- the growth engines that create two of every three new
jobs in this country.
A lot of small businesses still
have trouble getting the loans
and capital they need to keep
their doors open and hire new workers.
So we proposed steps to get them
that help: Eliminating capital
gains taxes on investments.
Establishing a fund for
small lenders to help small businesses.
Enhancing successful SBA
programs that help them access
the capital they need.
But again and again, a partisan
minority in the Senate said
"no," and used procedural
tactics to block a simple,
up-or-down vote.
Think about what these stalling
tactics mean for the millions of
Americans who've lost their
jobs since the recession began.
Over the past several weeks,
more than two million of them
have seen their unemployment
insurance expire.
For many, it was the only way to
make ends meet while searching
for work -- the only way to cover rent, utilities, even food.
Three times, the Senate has
tried to temporarily extend that
emergency assistance.
And three times, a
minority of Senators --
basically the same crowd who
said "no" to small businesses --
said "no" to folks
looking for work,
and blocked a straight
up-or-down vote.
Some Republican leaders actually
treat this unemployment
insurance as if it's
a form of welfare.
They say it discourages
folks from looking for work.
Well, I've met a lot of folks
looking for work these past few
years, and I can tell you, I
haven't met any American who
would rather have an
unemployment check than a
meaningful job that lets you
provide for your family.
And we all have
friends, or neighbors,
or family members who already
know how hard it is to land a
job when five workers are
competing for every opening.
Now in the past, Presidents and
Congresses of both parties have
treated unemployment
insurance for what it is --
an emergency expenditure.
That's because an economic
disaster can devastate families
and communities just as
surely as a flood or tornado.
But suddenly, Republican
leaders want to change that.
They say we shouldn't provide
unemployment insurance because
it costs money.
So after years of championing
policies that turned a record
surplus into a massive deficit,
including a tax cut for the
wealthiest Americans, they've
finally decided to make their
stand on the backs
of the unemployed.
They've got no problem spending
money on tax breaks for folks at
the top who don't need them
and didn't even ask for them;
but they object to helping folks
laid off in this recession who
really do need help.
And every day this goes on, another 50,000 Americans lose
that badly needed lifeline.
Well, I think these
Senators are wrong.
We can't afford to go back to
the same misguided policies that
led us into this mess.
We need to move forward with the
policies that are leading us out
of this mess.
The fact is, most economists
agree that extending
unemployment insurance is one of
the single most cost-effective
ways to help
jumpstart the economy.
It puts money into the pockets
of folks who not only need it
most, but who are also most
likely to spend it quickly.
That boosts local economies.
And that means jobs.
Increasing loans
to small business.
Renewing unemployment insurance.
These steps aren't just the
right thing to do for those
hardest hit by the recession -- they're the right thing to do
for all of us.
And I'm calling on Congress once
more to take these steps on
behalf of America's
workers, and their families,
and small business owners --
the people we were sent here to serve.
Because when storms
strike Main Street,
we don't play politics
with emergency aid.
We don't desert our fellow
Americans when they fall on hard times.
We come together.
We do what we can to help.
We rebuild stronger,
and we move forward.
That's what we're doing today.
And I'm absolutely convinced
that's how we're going to come
through this storm
to better days ahead.
Thanks.